# Digital-Lock-for-Secured-Transactions


A digital lock as a finite state machine has been implemented using Verilog HDL. The lock accepts smart card number, OTP, 4 digit input PIN if found correct, unlocks then. If the
sequence of digits entered is correct, the lock is unlocked. After entering a single digit, it cannot be re-entered. Fig.1 shows the state diagram for such a lock. Here, s0, s1, s2, s3, s4,s5, s6 are six states of state diagram of a mealy machine circuit. The inputs are represented by (a,b,c,d) variables. The reset variable ensures safe locking if it has been unlocked. The numbers of tries are stored in tc variable, used as try_count in the algorithm presented.

The above algorithm has been implemented and simulated using Modelsim software using Verilog HDL. Alarm will ring after three unsuccessful tries attracting passerby and discouraging the unauthorized person. To reset the alarm, the reset variable will be made high. The reset button will also be used for locking the lock if initially it was open. The whole machine will be restarted. The lock will remain at logic 1 i.e. locked. The input enable (ip_en) variable is acting as a keypad entry i.e. it gets high whenever a digit is inputted The user will enter smart card number and then PIN number as 4 digits from the keypad which will be assigned to a, b, c, d variables respectively. After entering the code, the enter key has to be pressed that correspond to the enter variable that will go high. A digit once entered cannot be changed as there will be no option of re-correcting it. The try_count variable will get incremented when a wrong digit is entered, no matter at which place, and the mchine will go in astate s4. The machine will now return to state s0 only when key_count reaches a value=4, signifying entry of 4 digits, which gets incremented at each digit input. The lock will only be unlocked when correct 4 digits are entered as set by the user initially.
